.Dd 8/6/18
.Dt TACH 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm tach
.Nd time execution, line-by-line
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl lp
.Ar command
.Op Ar arg0 ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility executes a given command, wrapping the output with a left margin that tracks the time taken for each line output.
.Pp
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl l
Low bandwidth mode. This minimizes the number of unnecessary screen updates, rather than giving a rolling millisecond precision, only the final timestamp of a line is printed.
.It Fl p
Connect the child process using
.Fn pipe
rather than
.Fn posix_openpt .
By default,
.Fn posix_openpt
is used.
.El
.Pp
.Sh BEHAVIOR
While running,
.Nm
reserves the leftmost 15 columns of the controlling terminal for the timestamp information. The timestamps are displayed as 8 digits of seconds, a decimal point, 3 digits of milliseconds, a space, the separator, and another space.
Controlling terminals narrower than 15 characters are not supported.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
0         1
012345678901234...
---------------...
       0.000 | ...
---------------...
.Ed
.Pp
The remainder of the terminal is a pty connected to the child process.
.Pp
The separator is a space with a gray background, except when the line is appended by output from stderr, in which case the background color of the separator will be red.
.Pp
When the child process either terminates or closes its end of the pty,
.Nm
completes by outputting a short summary of final statistics about the process. These contain the total runtime, number of lines printed, and longest single line duration.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Total:      1.640191 across 7 lines
Max:        1.636222
.Ed
.Sh CAVEATS
.Nm
does not interpret escape codes, they are passed through to the terminal containing
.Nm .
Escape codes that manipulate horizontal positioning may break out of the pty.
.Pp
.Nm
is line buffered, and the buffer is as large as the width of the pty used to contain the child process.
In rare cases a child process might emit escape sequences that span the end of the line buffer, causing them to become mangled by the left-hand side timestamp of the next line.
Wide characters whose glyph-widths don't line up with their byte-widths can also cause lines to wrap short or long.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr time 1
